# TaLIa
*Trust Layer Inversion*

The Trust Layer has meaning in both the Semantic Web and IoT and both of these components play key roles in this problem. In IoT, we're dealing with heterogeneous technologies at a scale which render the current system of data confidentiality, authentication, access control, and privacy controls functionally obsolete. The semantic web architecture provides for an encrypted layering of data along with taxomomy and ontology underneath a rules layer to manage logic and proof from which trust can be determined.

It also has a deeper meaning. We are going to approach this problem from the perspective of those who have the least reason to trust the system. This system assumes the primary user is suffering from an orphan disease and goes to a small practitioner. We'll assume the system will scale to someone with a sprained ankle in the NIH. 

Let's start at the data layer. We're moving our primary data storage from schema-on-write to schema-on-read. Apache Hbase is a sparse, distributed, persistent multidimensional sorted map, which is indexed by a row key, column key, and a timestamp. At a basic level, this enables a system that can conform to patient since it is fully flexible. In Hbase, a cell is made up of a key-value pair that's accessed by a row key. A cell can have 0..n tags. These tags can be used as visibility labels and access can be granted based on roles and/or a custom, pluggable algorithm. Basically, its possible to encode multiple layers of tag-based access information directly into a single data point. In fact, the code to do that is included here. 

Normally, Apache Knox handles authentication and Apache Ranger handles authorization. However, I mentioned something about inversion ....

As part of MIT's blockchain initiative, Enigma, a paper envisioned blockchain as an automated access control manager to enable a personal data management system. At the core of the paper is the idea of combining blockchain and off-blockchain storage. The goal is to provide clear data ownership, data transparency and auditability and fine-grained access control.

There are three entities: users, services and nodes. The blockchain accepts two types of transactions: access and data. Access transactions are used for data control management. Data transactions are used for data storage and retrieval.

For example, a user installs an application to access EHR from a particular provider. A new compound identity is created (shared user and service), along with associated permissions to the blockchain as an access transaction. Data collected is encrypted using the shared encryption key and sent to the blockchain in a data transaction, which subsequently routes the data to an off-blockchain key-value store. The blockchain just keeps a SHA-256 hash of the data. Both the service and the user can now query the data with data transactions using just the pointer. The user can change permissions at any time by issuing an access transaction with a new set of permissions.  

From the perspective of a running IT system, placing all of the data governance in a new system like blockchain is likely a bridge too far. Violating data governance best practices is bad Innovation Risk Management. Also, there are additional levels of security that a health enterprise may place on its data than what would be specified in a user's contract.

Apache Atlas is the data governance and metadata framework for Hadoop, which provides central classification, centralized auditing and a security and policy engine. As an extensible system, it allows for bridges to be built for both within and outside of Hadoop. Incoming data will go though a RESTful API layer and then be processed by the type system to manage the metadata, which is stored as a graph in HBase and indexed in Solr. The data is the stored in HBase first, since HBase is an extremely fast data repository. However, not all of the data that lands in HBase is visible to all users at that time depending on the tagging. There is a smaller stream of data that is also going to the blockchain. After the blockchain has been updated, a SHA of the data will be generated. A SHA of the data will be generated by HBase as well. if the handshake is successful, then the blockchain size is reduced to a pointer and the access instructions are used to update the cell's visibility layer tags.     

In conclusion, an attempt was made to satisfy two goals. The first was to reimagine a data architecture that starts with the most complex cases. The second was to make the "least new solution" possible to reduce the impact to the existing IT enterprise and mitigate Innovation Risk. As a corollary, all of the technology had to be open source and Apache based.   
  
We started with a modern, but fairly well-known, data lake architecture. Apache Hadoop and Hbase are both over a dozen years old and products are available from multiple publicly traded companies. For the blockchain, I used IBM's Hyperledger Fabric, an Apache-licensed open source framework. I wrote the blockcahin service in Go, but Talia is written in Java, which is a much more accessible enterprise language. I did use Apache Atlas, which is open source but currently only used by Hortonworks. There is nothing preventing it from being used with other distributions, though. 

Taking the MIT specification and implementing it using Hyperledger is definitely possible. Adding the additional tagging fucntionality to HBase is cutting-edge but not unreasonable. Atlas is alpha but moving forward steadily.

In conclusion, using the blockchain for security metadata and tagging to manage access, provide auditing and provenance information while integrating into an existing HealthIT solution in this manner is not unreasonable.   